<pre>
  TIP: 1
  Layer: Applications
  Title: URI Scheme
  Author: Marco Argentieri <argentieri.ma+tip1@gmail.com>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/tdex-network/tips/wiki/Comments:TIP-0001
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2021-12-28
</pre>


==Abstract==
This TIP proposes a URI scheme for making TDEX trades against a liquidity provider.

==Motivation==
The purpose of this URI scheme is to enable users to easily make trades by simply clicking links on webpages or scanning QR Codes.

==Specification==


TDEX clients MUST NOT act on URIs without getting the user's authorization.
They SHOULD require the user to manually approve each trade individually, though in some cases they MAY allow the user to automatically make this decision.

=== Operating system integration ===
Graphical TDEX clients SHOULD register themselves as the handler for the "tdex:" URI scheme by default, if no other handler is already registered. If there is already a registered handler, they MAY prompt the user to change it once when they first run the client.

=== General Format ===

TDEX URIs follow the general format for URIs as set forth in RFC 3986. The path component consists of a subset of `SwapRequest`'s fields as defined in [[https://github.com/tdex-network/tdex-specs/blob/master/03-swap-protocol.md|BOTD #3: Swap protocol]] encoded as query string.

Elements of the query component may contain characters outside the valid range. These must first be encoded according to UTF-8, and then each octet of the corresponding UTF-8 sequence must be percent-encoded as described in RFC 3986.

The scheme component ("tdex:") is case-insensitive, and implementations must accept any combination of uppercase and lowercase letters. The rest of the URI is case-sensitive, including the query parameter keys.

=== Query Keys ===

*provider_url: The liquidity provider URL to connect to

*amount_p: The proposer's quantity
*asset_p: The proposer's asset hash

AND/OR

*amount_r: The responder's quantity
*asset_r: The responder's asset hash


==== Transfer amount ====

If an amount is provided, it MUST be specified in decimal L-BTC.
All amounts MUST contain no commas and use a period (.) as the separating character to separate whole numbers and decimal fractions.
I.e. amount=50.00 or amount=50 is treated as 50 L-BTC, and amount=50,000.00 is invalid.

TDEX clients MAY display the amount in any format that is not intended to deceive the user.
They SHOULD choose a format that is foremost least confusing, and only after that most reasonable given the amount requested.
For example, so long as the majority of users work in L-BTC units, values should always be displayed in L-BTC by default, even if L-mBTC or L-bits would otherwise be a more logical interpretation of the amount.


=== Simpler syntax ===

 <nowiki>tdex:<provider_url>[?amount_p=<amount>][?asset_p=<asset_p>][?amount_r=<amount_r>][?asset_r=<asset_r>]</nowiki>

=== Examples ===

Just the provider:
 tdex:https://provider.tdex.network:9945

Provider with proposer amount and asset:
 tdex:https://provider.tdex.network:9945?amount_p=0.005&asset_p=6f0279e9ed041c3d710a9f57d0c02928416460c4b722ae3457a11eec381c526d 

Provider with proposer amount for asset AND responder amount for asset:
 tdex:https://provider.tdex.network:9945?amount_p=0.005&asset_p=6f0279e9ed041c3d710a9f57d0c02928416460c4b722ae3457a11eec381c526d&amount_r=1500&asset_r=ce091c998b83c78bb71a632313ba3760f1763d9cfcffae02258ffa9865a37bd2

Characters must be URI encoded properly.

== Reference Implementations ==
TBD

=== Libraries ===
TBD
